---
title: "[Deprecated] Order Logs"
slug: "deprecated-order-logs"
hidden: true
createdAt: "2022-06-09T21:06:51.232Z"
updatedAt: "2022-06-10T16:12:38.932Z"
---

>⚠️ We have released a new method for integrating orders from external marketplaces, as a part of our Marketplace Protocol. If you used this previous method for integrating orders, you can still find their documentation in [Order Logs](https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-rest-api/docs/deprecated-order-logs) and [How to collect orders from sales channels](https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-rest-api/docs/deprecated-how-to-collect-orders-from-sales-channels). These previous methods, however, will not be maintained. If you are integrating orders for the first time, we recommend you use the instructions in our [New Order Integration](https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-rest-api/docs/external-marketplace-integration-collect-orders) guide.

Connectors should present the logs that follow, considering their status:

<table>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>Status</strong></td>
        <td><strong>Description</strong></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Success</td>
        <td>Occurs when the exchange of messages between VTEX, connector and marketplace flow successfully.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Error</td>
        <td>Occurs when the exchange of messages between VTEX, connector and marketplace present errors due to
            communication (500) or business errors (400). Recommendations: for 500 errors, it is highly recommended to
            use the contingency flow through the reprocessing queue with at least 10 attempts. After the attempt number
            is exceeded, we recommend using a DEADLETTER queue for infinite retrials. </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Alert</td>
        <td>Occurs when the exchange of messages between VTEX, connector and marketplace are able to process, but with a
            needed action from one of the systems involved. </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Pending</td>
        <td>Occurs when the exchange of messages between VTEX, connector and marketplace are in progress. Ex. SKUs are
            still in the connector’s processing queue, or waiting an async response from the marketplace.</td>
    </tr>
</table>

## Content of the messages

The messages contained in logs should follow the standard defined below, allowing the user who operates VTEX platform and catalog to understand the situation:

1. **Operation ID (id)**: allows to identify the unique log in any sort of operation.
2. **Operation**: identifies if an operation is a Catalog change, Offer creation, Price update, Inventory update, Order status update, Invoice sending, Tracking code sending.
3. **Direction**: allows to identify the origin and destination  of the information. Ex. VTEX to Marketplace.
4. **Content Source**: payload sent by the origin solution. Ex. Order’s json, connected from the marketplace, allowing to identify the original message sent by the origin app.
5. **Content Translated**: message generated by the connector with transformations, filers and enrichments needed, allowing sellers to understand the actions executed.
6. **Content destination**: original payload sent by the destination software after processing trial.
7. **Business message**: in case of errors, message explaining the error under the business contexto, with guidance on how to solve the problem.
8. **Status**: should include the statuses of success, error, warning and pending.

## Log messages

Each step of the catalog integration requires a specific set of Log messages. The table describes all messages, for each scenario within the integration.
<table>
    <tr>
        <td>Code</td>
        <td>Event</td>
        <td>User message</td>
        <td>Error status</td>
        <td>Response</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>A</td>
        <td>When integrating the order successfully in VTEX</td>
        <td>The order {{marketplaceOrderId}} was created in VTEX successfully under the ID {{vtexOrderId}}. <em>Link to the order within VTEX.</em></td>
        <td>Success</td>
        <td>201</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>B</td>
        <td>When sending the SKU register to the marketplace</td>
        <td>The standard rule with 0-100% manual approval was created successfully. To view or change this rule click [here](https://accountname.myvtex.com/admin/order-auth)</td>
        <td>Success</td>
        <td>201</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>C</td>
        <td>When sending the cancel order request</td>
        <td>The order {vtexOrderId} has been cancelled successfully.</td>
        <td>Success</td>
        <td>201</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>D</td>
        <td>When using the <a href="https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-rest-api/reference/fulfillment-simulation">Fulfillment simulation</a> API, the SKU is not retrieved in the `items` object.</td>
        <td>Oops, we couldn’t obtain the information of SKU {{skuId}}. Please check if the items below are configured correctly in the VTEX platform.<ol> <li>In product registration, check if it is associated with the trade policy.</li> <li>In <a href="https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-rest-api/reference/fulfillment-simulation">fulfillment simulation</a>, check if the carrier attending the SKU exists.</li> <li>In price configuration, check if there’s a price associated with the trade policy.</li></ol></td>
        <td>Warning</td>
        <td>400</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>E</td>
        <td>When trying to send the Cancel Order request and receiving failure for multiple requests</td>
        <td>Oops, we could not cancel the order right now, due to the high volume of requests we’re receiving. We’ll try again later. If you prefer, you can cancel the order directly in VTEX.</td>
        <td>Alert</td>
        <td>400</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>F</td>
        <td>When checking if the SKU is inactive \\</td>
        <td>Oops, the SKU is inactive in VTEX. We recommend that you check:<ol><li>In Catalog, identify the SKU and check if the field “Activate SKU” is checked.</li> <li>In Catalog, check if the image is uploaded.</li> <li>In <a href="https://developers.vtex.com/vtex-rest-api/reference/fulfillment-simulation">fulfillment simulation</a>, check if the carrier attending the SKU exists.</li> <li>On price configuration, check if there’s a price associated with the trade policy.</li></ol></td>
        <td>Warning</td>
        <td>400</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>G</td>
        <td>When trying to cancel an order that has already been manually cancelled in VTEX</td>
        <td>The order {vtexOrderId} has already been cancelled in VTEX.</td>
        <td>Error</td>
        <td>500</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>H</td>
        <td>When receiving an error about divergences</td>
        <td>Oops, we couldn’t find the values needed for order placement, with standard values accepted by the marketplace. {{list containing FIELD and VALUE attributed}}</td>
        <td>Warning</td>
        <td>200</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>I</td>
        <td>When transforming Order data to the format demanded by the marketplace.</td>
        <td>Oops, we couldn't prepare the SKU registration in the marketplace due to {{list all errors occurred during data transformation, and in case any data infringes marketplace rules}}. (Connectors should list all errors at once, so the user knows all actions needed to send the SKU).</td>
        <td>Error</td>
        <td>400</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>J</td>
        <td>Error when trying to create price divergence standard rule</td>
        <td>Oops, we were not able to create the standard price divergence rule. Please try again later.</td>
        <td>Error</td>
        <td>400</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>K</td>
        <td>When trying to cancel an order with invalid credentials</td>
        <td>Oops, we were not able to communicate with VTEX to cancel the Order. Please check if your integration’s settings are correct.</td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>L</td>
        <td>When trying to communicate with the marketplace API used to register the product</td>
        <td>Oops, the product registration in the {name} marketplace is unavailable right now. Don’t worry - we’ll try again in a few minutes. In case the problem persists, get in touch with the marketplace.</td>
        <td>Error</td>
        <td>500</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>M</td>
        <td>When trying to cancel an order that has not been integrated in VTEX</td>
        <td>Oops, the order {vtexOrderId} has not been integrated in VTEX yet. We’ll try again later.</td>
        <td></td>
        <td></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>When sending the product registration to the marketplace, and obtaining failure for sending incorrect data.</td>
        <td>Oops, we couldn't prepare the SKU registration in the marketplace due to {list all errors occurred during data transformation, and in case any data infringes marketplace rules}. (Connectors should list all errors at once, so the user knows all actions needed to send the SKU).</td>
        <td>Error</td>
        <td>400</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>O</td>
        <td>When trying to collect the category or attribute mapping from the VTEX Mapper.</td>
        <td>Oops, we couldn’t find the category {name of the category} mapping of the {SKU name + ID} SKU in the marketplace. Please access the link below to perform this mapping. {Link indicating the store’s mapper}.</td>
        <td>Error</td>
        <td>400</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>P</td>
        <td>When trying to communicate with the mapping API from the mapper.</td>
        <td>Oops, the VTEX category mapping is unavailable right now. Don’t worry - we’ll try again in a few minutes. In case the problem persists, get in touch with support.</td>
        <td>Error</td>
        <td>500</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Q</td>
        <td>When trying to reprocess an order that is already canceled in the marketplace due to inventory error</td>
        <td>Oops, we couldn’t reprocess the order {{orderId}} of the {{marketplaceName}}, since this order was cancelled manually in the marketplace.</td>
        <td>Error</td>
        <td>400</td>
    </tr>
</table>
